all right let's make some hummus this is
the most traditional and basic way
simply using lemon garlic chickpeas
olive oil and salt usually tahini is
included which is just ground sesame
seed book that adds a lot of fat so I
chose to leave it out for this recipe
all right so let's start by opening the
can of chickpeas draining out the liquid
and then setting them aside for a minute
and now what I'm going to do is chop up
the garlic simply using a food processor
if you don't have a food processor or a
blender you can use a knife to chop up
the garlic this dish is traditionally
made with a mortar and pestle or you can
use a spoon and a bowl but this is just
for convenience and it chops it up a
little bit easier all right so once
you've chopped up the garlic go ahead
and add the chickpeas now or later let's
just set that aside so you can Samurai
chop your lemon in half this is a
crucial part making some kind of ninja
move before you cut the lemon otherwise
your hummus will not come out right all
right so now we're gonna add the juice
from just half of the lemon you can
always add more later but you can't take
it away give it a few quick pulses just
to chop it up and mix in the lemon juice
and now go ahead and add one tablespoon
of olive oil again you can always add
more or less depending on your macros or
depending on the consistency that you
like and you may need to add a little
bit of liquid I chose to just add water
so I don't add additional calories you
can add some more lemon juice or olive
oil just so it blends up a little bit
better and becomes a bit more creamy now
you can go ahead and any additional
spices or sauces that you would like I'm
sticking with just black pepper and some
sea salt again I have made many
different kinds of hummus and that's the
best part about it you can make it with
basil and pesto you can make a roasted
red pepper buffalo sauce and make a
buffalo hummus roasted pine nuts
sun-dried tomatoes jalapenos roasted
garlic Greek and olive anything you
could think of that you want to mix into
this dip or paste feel free to do so the
best part about hummus is the
versatility of the dish it can be used
in salads as a spread on a sandwich
instead of mayo or dressing you can dip
crackers in it vegetables in it this is
the macros for the entire
Boal it can serve more than one person
unless you're really hungry you can also
significantly lower the macros by taking
out the tablespoon of olive oil and
replacing that liquid with water or
lemon juice or something like that just
to get rid of some of the fat if you
choose to do so anyway if you enjoyed
this recipe don't forget to like the
video and subscribe for more as always I
appreciate the support and I'll catch
you in the next one